vdr(5)                                                                          Video Disk Recorder Files                                                                         vdr(5)



NAME
       vdr_files - the Video Disk Recorder Files

DESCRIPTION
       This page describes the formats of the various files vdr uses to store configuration data and recordings.

SYNTAX
   CHANNELS
       The file channels.conf contains the channel configuration.  Each line defines either a group delimiter or a channel.

       A group delimiter is a line starting with a ':' as the very first character, followed by arbitrary text. Example:

       :First group

       Group delimiters may also be used to specify the number of the next channel.  To do this, the character '@' and a number must immediately follow the ':', as in

       :@201 First group

       The given number must be larger than the number of any previous channel (otherwise it is silently ignored).

       A group delimiter can also be used to just set the next channel's number, without an explicit delimiter text, as in

       :@201

       Such a delimiter will not appear in the Channels menu.

       A channel definition is a line with channel data, where the fields are separated by ':' characters. Example:


       RTL Television,RTL;RTL World=Premiere:12187:hC34M2O0S0:S19.2E:27500:163=2:104=deu;106=deu:105:0:12003:1:1089:0

       The  line  number  of  a  channel definition (not counting group separators, and based on a possible previous '@...' parameter) defines the channel's number in OSD menus and the
       timers.conf file.

       The fields in a channel definition have the following meaning (from left to right):

       Name   The channel's name (if the name originally contains a ':' character it has to be replaced by '|').  Some TV stations provide a way of deriving a  "short  name"  from  the
              channel name, which can be used in situations where there is not much space for displaying a long name. If a short name is available for this channel, it follows the full
              name and is delimited by a comma, as in

              RTL Television,RTL:...

              If the short name itself would contain a comma, it is replaced with a '.'.  Note that some long channel names may contain a comma, so the delimiting comma is  always  the
              rightmost one.

              If present, the name of the service provider or "bouquet" is appended to the channel name, separated by a semicolon, as in

              RTL Television,RTL;RTL World:...

              If present, the name of the network is appended to the channel name, separated by a '=' character, as in

              RTL Television,RTL;RTL World=Premiere:...


       Frequency
              The  transponder  frequency  (as an integer). For DVB-S this value is in MHz. For DVB-C and DVB-T it can be given either in MHz, kHz or Hz (the actual value given will be
              multiplied by 1000 until it is larger than 1000000).

       Parameters
              Various parameters, depending on whether this is a DVB-S, DVB-C or DVB-T channel.  Each parameter consist of a key character, followed by an integer  number  that  repre‐
              sents the actual setting of that parameter. The valid key characters, their meaning (and allowed values) are

              A   logical channel Number (0-1023)
              B   Bandwidth (1712, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10)
              C   Code rate high priority (0, 12, 23, 34, 35, 45, 56, 67, 78, 89, 910)
              D   coDe rate low priority (0, 12, 23, 34, 35, 45, 56, 67, 78, 89, 910)
              G   Guard interval (4, 8, 16, 32, 128, 19128, 19256)
              H   Horizontal polarization
              I   Inversion (0, 1)
              L   Left circular polarization
              M   Modulation (2, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 12, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256, 999)
              N   pilot mode (0, 1, 999)
              O   rollOff (0, 20, 25, 35)
              P   stream id (0-255)
              Q   t2 system id (0-65535)
              R   Right circular polarization
              S   delivery System (0, 1)
              T   Transmission mode (1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32)
              V   Vertical polarization
              X   siso/miso mode (0, 1)
              Y   hierarchY (0, 1, 2, 4)

              Logical channel number: If no logical channel number is used, set to 0 (DVB-C/DVB-T/DVB-T2 only).

              Bandwidth: The bandwidth of the channel in MHz (1712 in kHz): (DVB-T/DVB-T2 only).

              Code rate high priority: Forward Error Correction (FEC) of the high priority stream (DVB-T/DVB-T2).  For DVB-S/DVB-S2 this parameter specifies the inner FEC scheme.  12 =
              1/2, 23 = 2/3, 34 = 3/4, ...

              Code rate low priority: Forward Error Correction (FEC) of the low priority stream (DVB-T/DVB-T2 only).  If no hierarchy is used, set to 0.

              Guard interval: The guard interval value (DVB-T only): 4 = 1/4, 8 = 1/8, 16 = 1/16, 32 = 1/32, 128 = 1/128, 19128 = 19/128, 19256 = 19/256.

              Inversion: Specifies whether the DVB frontend needs spectral inversion (DVB-T and DVB-C only). This is frontend specific, if in doubt, omit.

              Modulation: Specifies the modulation/constellation of the channel as follows:

              2     QPSK (DVB-S, DVB-S2, DVB-T, DVB-T2, ISDB-T)
              5     8PSK (DVB-S, DVB-S2)
              6     16APSK (DVB-S2)
              7     32APSK (DVB-S2)
              10    VSB8 (ATSC aerial)
              11    VSB16 (ATSC aerial)
              12    DQPSK (ISDB-T)
              16    QAM16 (DVB-T, DVB-T2, ISDB-T)
              32    QAM32
              64    QAM64 (DVB-C, DVB-T, DVB-T2, ISDB-T)
              128   QAM128 (DVB-C)
              256   QAM256 (DVB-C, DVB-T2)

              Pilot mode: The pilot mode (0 = "off", 1 = "on", 999 = "auto") for DVB-S2 multiplex (DVB-S2 only).

              Rolloff: The Nyquist filter rolloff factor for DVB-S (35) and DVB-S2 (35, 25, 20), 35 = 0.35, 25 = 0.25, 20 = 0.20, DVB-S/DVB-S2 default value is 0.35

              Stream id: Input Stream Identifier (ISI) (0-255) for DVB-S2 multiplex or Physical Layer Pipe (PLP) id (0-255) for DVB-T2 multiplex (DVB-S2/DVB-T2 only, with devices  that
              support "multi streaming").

              T2 System id: Unique identifier (0-65535) of T2 system within the DVB network (DVB-T2).

              Transmission mode: Number of DVB-T OFDM carriers, 32 = 32k, 16 = 16k, 8 = 8k, 4 = 4k, 2 = 2k, 1 = 1k. If in doubt, try 8k.

              SISO/MISO mode: Specifies the Single-Input/Multiple-Input Single-Output mode (0 = SISO, 1 = MISO) (DVB-T2).

              Hierarchy: If set to 1, this transponder uses two streams, high priority and low priority.  If in doubt, try 0 (off). (DVB-T/DVB-T2 only).

              Delivery System: The delivery system (0 = "first generation" (DVB-S/DVB-T), 1 = "second generation" (DVB-S2/DVB-T2).

              Polarization: Satellite antenna polarization.  H = horizontal, V = vertical, R = circular right, L = circular left.

              The  polarization parameters have no integer numbers following them. This is for compatibility with files from older versions and also to keep the DVB-S entries as simple
              as possible.

              The special value 999 is used for "automatic", which means the driver will automatically determine the proper value (if possible).

              An example of a parameter field for a DVB-T channel might look like this: B8C23D12G8M16T8Y0S0

              An example of a parameter field for a DVB-T2 channel might look like this: B8C23D12G8M16T8Y0P0S1

              An example of a parameter field for a DVB-C channel might look like this: C0M64

              An example of a parameter field for a DVB-S channel might look like this: HC56M2O35S0

              An example of a parameter field for a DVB-S2 channel might look like this: HC910M2O35S1

              Plugins that implement devices that need their own set of parameters may store those in the parameters string in arbitrary format (not necessarily the  "character/number"
              format listed above). The only condition is that the string may not contain colons (':') or newline characters.

       Source The signal source of this channel, as defined in the file sources.conf.

       Srate  The symbol rate of this channel (DVB-S and DVB-C only).

       VPID   The video PID (set to '0' for radio channels).  If this channel uses a separate PCR PID, it follows the VPID, separated by a plus sign, as in

              ...:164+17:...

              If this channel has a video mode other than 0, the mode follows the pids, separated by an '=' sign, as in

              ...:164+17=27:...

       APID   The  audio PID (either one number, or several, separated by commas).  If this channel also carries Dolby Digital sound, the Dolby PIDs follow the audio PIDs, separated by
              a semicolon, as in

              ...:101,102;103,104:...

              If certain audio PIDs broadcast in specific languages, the language codes for these can be appended to the individual audio or Dolby PID, separated by an '=' sign, as in

              ...:101=deu,102=eng;103=deu,104=eng:...

              Some channels broadcast two different languages in the two stereo channels, which can be indicated by adding a second language code, delimited by a '+' sign, as in

              ...:101=deu,102=eng+spa;103=deu,104=eng:...

              The audio type is appended with a separating '@' character, as in

              ...:101=deu@4,102=eng+spa@4,105=@4:...

              Note that if there is no language code, there still is the separating '=' if there is an audio type.


       TPID   The teletext PID.  If this channel also carries DVB subtitles, the DVB subtitling PIDs follow the teletext PID, separated by a semicolon, as in

              ...:201;2001,2002:...

              If certain subtitling PIDs broadcast in specific languages, the language codes for these can be appended to the individual subtitling PID, separated by an '=' sign, as in

              ...:201;2001=deu,2002=eng:...

              Manual teletext subtitling pages can be defined separated by a '+' sign.  The pages (separated by commas) can contain language codes, delimited by a '=' sign, as in

              ...:201+150=deu,151=fin;2001,2002:...


       Conditional access
              A hexadecimal integer defining how this channel can be accessed:

              0000          Free To Air
              0001...000F   explicitly requires the device with the given number
              0010...00FF   reserved for user defined assignments
              0100...FFFF   specific decryption methods as broadcast in the data stream
              Values in the range 0001...00FF will not be overwritten, all other values will be automatically replaced by the actual  CA  system  identifiers  received  from  the  data
              stream. If there is more than one CA system id broadcast, they will be separated by commas, as in

              ...:1702,1722,1801:...

              The values are in hex because that's the way they are defined in the "ETR 162" document. Leading zeros may be omitted.

       SID    The Service ID of this channel.

       NID    The Network ID of this channel.

       TID    The Transport stream ID of this channel.

       RID    The Radio ID of this channel (typically 0, may be used to distinguish channels where NID, TID and SID are all equal).

       A particular channel can be uniquely identified by its channel ID, which is a string that looks like this:

       S19.2E-1-1089-12003-0

       The  components  of  this  string  are the Source (S19.2E), NID (1), TID (1089), SID (12003) and RID (0) as defined above.  The last part can be omitted if it is 0, so the above
       example could also be written as S19.2E-1-1089-12003).
       The channel ID is used in the timers.conf and epg.data files to properly identify the channels.

       If a channel has both NID and TID set to 0, the channel ID will use the Frequency instead of the TID. For satellite channels an additional offset of 100000,  200000,  300000  or
       400000  is added to that number, depending on the Polarization (H, V, L or R, respectively). This is necessary because on some satellites the same frequency is used for two dif‐
       ferent transponders, with opposite polarization.

   TIMERS
       The file timers.conf contains the timer setup.  Each line contains one timer definition, with individual fields separated by ':' characters. Example:

       1:10:-T-----:2058:2150:50:5:Quarks & Co:

       The fields in a timer definition have the following meaning (from left to right):

       Flags  The individual bits in this field have the following meaning:

              1   the timer is active (and will record if it hits)
              2   this is an instant recording timer
              4   this timer uses VPS
              8   this timer is currently recording (may only be up-to-date with SVDRP)

              All other bits are reserved for future use.

       Channel
              The channel to record from. This is either the channel number as shown in the on-screen menus, or a complete channel ID. When reading timers.conf any channel numbers will
              be mapped to the respective channel ids and when the file is written again, there will only be channel ids. Channel numbers are accepted as input in order to allow easier
              creation of timers when manually editing timers.conf. Also, when timers are listed via SVDRP commands, the channels are given as numbers.

       Day    The day when this timer shall record.

              If this is a `single-shot' timer, this is the date on which this timer shall record, given in ISO notation (YYYY-MM-DD), as in:

              2005-03-19

              For compatibility with earlier versions of VDR this may also be just the day of month on which this timer shall record (must be in the range 1...31).

              In case of a `repeating' timer this is a string consisting of exactly seven characters, where each character position corresponds to one day  of  the  week  (with  Monday
              being  the  first  day).  The character '-' at a certain position means that the timer shall not record on that day. Any other character will cause the timer to record on
              that day. Example:

              MTWTF--

              will define a timer that records on Monday through Friday and does not record on weekends.  Note that only letters may be used here, no digits.   For  compatibility  with
              timers  created with earlier versions of VDR, the same result could be achieved with ABCDE-- (which was used to allow setting the days with language specific characters).
              Since version 1.5.3 VDR can use UTF-8 characters to present data to the user, but the weekday encoding in the timers.conf file always uses single byte characters.

              The day definition of a `repeating' timer may be followed by the date when that timer shall hit for the first time. The format for this is @YYYY-MM-DD, so a complete def‐
              inition could look like this:

              MTWTF--@2002-02-18

              which  would  implement  a timer that records Monday through Friday, and will hit for the first time on or after February 18, 2002.  This first day feature can be used to
              disable a repeating timer for a couple of days, or for instance to define a new Mon...Fri timer on Wednesday, which actually starts "Monday next week". The first day date
              given need not be that of a day when the timer would actually hit.

       Start  A four digit integer defining when this timer shall start recording.  The format is hhmm, so 1430 would mean "half past two" in the afternoon.

       Stop   A four digit integer defining when this timer shall stop recording.  The format is the same as for the start time.

       Priority
              An integer in the range 0...99, defining the priority of this timer and of recordings created by this timer.  0 represents the lowest value, 99 the highest.  The priority
              is used to decide which timer shall be started in case there are two or more timers with the exact same start time. The first timer in the list with the highest  priority
              will be used.

              This  value is also stored with the recording and is later used to decide which recording to remove from disk in order to free space for a new recording. If the disk runs
              full and a new recording needs more space, an existing recording with the lowest priority (and which has exceeded its guaranteed lifetime) will be removed.

              If all available DVB cards are currently occupied, a timer with a higher priority will interrupt the timer with the lowest priority in order to start recording.

       Lifetime
              The guaranteed lifetime (in days) of a recording created by this timer.  0 means that this recording may be automatically deleted at any time  by  a  new  recording  with
              higher  priority.  99  means  that  this  recording will never be automatically deleted. Any number in the range 1...98 means that this recording may not be automatically
              deleted in favour of a new recording, until the given number of days since the start time of the recording has passed by.

       File   The file name this timer will give to a recording.  If the name contains any ':' characters, these have to be replaced by '|'.  If the name shall contain  subdirectories,
              these have to be delimited by '~' (since the '/' character may be part of a regular programme name).

              The  special  keywords  TITLE  and  EPISODE, if present, will be replaced by the title and episode information from the EPG data at the time of recording (if that data is
              available). If at the time of recording either of these cannot be determined, TITLE will default to the channel name, and EPISODE will default to a blank.

       Auxiliary data
              An arbitrary string that can be used by external applications to store any kind of data related to this timer. The string must not contain any newline characters. If this
              field is not empty, its contents will be written into the info file of the recording with the '@' tag.

   SOURCES
       The file sources.conf defines the codes to be used in the Source field of channels in channels.conf and assigns descriptive texts to them.  Example:

       S19.2E  Astra 1

       Anything after (and including) a '#' character is comment.

       The first character of the code must be one of

       A   ATSC
       C   Cable
       S   Satellite
       T   Terrestrial

       and  is followed by further data pertaining to that particular source. In case of Satellite this is the orbital position in degrees, followed by E for east or W for west.  Plug‐
       ins may define additional sources, using other characters in the range 'A'...'Z'.

   DISEQC
       The file diseqc.conf defines the DiSEqC control sequences to be sent to the DVB-S card in order to access a given satellite position and/or band.  Example:

       S19.2E  11700 V  9750  t v W15 [E0 10 38 F0] W15 A W15 t

       Anything after (and including) a '#' character is comment.

       The first word in a parameter line must be one of the codes defined in the file sources.conf and tells which satellite this line applies to.

       Following is the "switch frequency" of the LNB (slof), which is the transponder frequency up to which this entry shall be used; the first entry with an  slof  greater  than  the
       actual  transponder frequency will be used. Typically there is only one slof per LNB, but the syntax allows any number of frequency ranges to be defined.  Note that there should
       be a last entry with the value 99999 for each satellite, which covers the upper frequency range.

       The third parameter defines the polarization to which this entry applies. It can be either H for horizontal, V for vertical, L for circular left or R for circular right.

       The fourth parameter specifies the "local oscillator frequency" (lof) of the LNB to use for the given frequency range. This number will be subtracted from the actual transponder
       frequency when tuning to the channel.

       The rest of the line holds the actual sequence of DiSEqC actions to be taken.  The code letters used here are

       t          22kHz tone off
       T          22kHz tone on
       v          voltage low (13V)
       V          voltage high (18V)
       A          mini A
       B          mini B
       Pn         use positioner to move dish to satellite position n (or to the satellite's orbital position, if no position number is given)
       Sn         Satellite channel routing code sequence for bank n follows
       Wnn        wait nn milliseconds (nn may be any positive integer number)
       [xx ...]   hex code sequence (max. 6)
       There  can  be any number of actions in a line, including none at all - in which case the entry would be used only to set the LOF to use for the given frequency range and polar‐
       ization.

       By default it is assumed that every DVB-S device can receive every satellite.  If this is not the case in a particular setup, lines of the form

       1 2 4:

       may be inserted in the diseqc.conf file, defining the devices that are able to receive the satellites following thereafter. In this case, only the devices 1, 2 and  4  would  be
       able to receive any satellites following this line and up to the next such line, or the end of the file. Devices may be listed more than once.

   SATELLITE CHANNEL ROUTING (SCR)
       The file scr.conf contains the channel definitions of the SCR device in use.  The format is

       channel frequency [pin]

       where  channel  is  the SCR device's channel index (0-7), frequency is the user band frequency of the given channel, and pin is an optional pin number (0-255). The actual values
       are device specific and can be found in the SCR device's manual.

       Examples:

       0 1284
       1 1400
       2 1516
       3 1632
       4 1748
       5 1864
       6 1980
       7 2096

       By default it is assumed that the SCR configurations apply to all devices, and each device will pick one. If you have several SCR sat cables connected to one VDR machine, or  if
       you want to explicitly assign the SCR channels to your devices, lines of the form

       1 2 4:

       may be inserted in the scr.conf file, defining the devices that are allowed to use the SCR channels thereafter. In this case, only the devices 1, 2 and 4 would be allowed to use
       the SCR channels following this line and up to the next such line, or the end of the file. If a device is listed more than once, only its first appearance counts.

   REMOTE CONTROL KEYS
       The file remote.conf contains the key assignments for all remote control units. Each line consists of one key assignment in the following format:

       name.key  code

       where name is the name of the remote control (for instance KBD for the PC keyboard, or LIRC for the "Linux Infrared Remote Control"), key is the name of the key that is  defined
       (like Up, Down, Menu etc.), and code is a character string that this remote control delivers when the given key is pressed.

   KEY MACROS
       The file keymacros.conf contains user defined macros that will be executed whenever the given key is pressed. The format is

       macrokey  [@plugin] key1 key2 key3...

       where  macrokey  is  the key that shall initiate execution of this macro and can be one of Up, Down, Ok, Back, Left, Right, Red, Green, Yellow, Blue, 0...9 or User1...User9. The
       rest of the line consists of a set of keys, which will be executed just as if they had been pressed in the given sequence. The optional @plugin  can  be  used  to  automatically
       select the given plugin.  plugin is the name of the plugin, exactly as given in the -P option when starting VDR. There can be only one @plugin per key macro.  For instance

       User1 @abc Down Down Ok

       would call the main menu function of the "abc" plugin and execute two "Down" key presses, followed by "Ok".
       Note  that  the color keys will only execute their macro function in "normal viewing" mode (i.e. when no other menu or player is active). The User1...User9 keys will always exe‐
       cute their macro function.  There may be up to 15 keys in such a key sequence.

   FOLDERS
       The file folders.conf contains the definitions of folders that can be used in the "Edit timer" menu. Each line contains one folder definition. Leading whitespace and  everything
       after and including a '#' is ignored. A line ending with '{' defines a sub folder (i.e. a folder that contains other folders), and a line consisting of only '}' ends the defini‐
       tion of a sub folder.

       Example:

       Daily {
         News
         Soaps
         }
       Archive {
         Movies
         Sports
         Sci-Fi {
           Star Trek
           U.F.O.
           }
         }
       Comedy
       Science

       Note that these folder definitions are only used to set the file name under which a timer will store its recording. Changing these definitions in any way has no effect on exist‐
       ing timers or recordings.

   COMMANDS
       The  file  commands.conf  contains the definitions of commands that can be executed from the vdr main menu's "Commands" option.  Each line contains one command definition in the
       following format:

       title : command

       where title is the string that will be displayed in the "Commands" menu, and command is the actual command string that will be executed when this option is selected. The  delim‐
       iting ':' may be surrounded by any number of white space characters. If title ends with the character '?', there will be a confirmation prompt before actually executing the com‐
       mand. This can be used for commands that might have serious results (like deleting files etc) to make sure they are not executed inadvertently.

       Everything following (and including) a '#' character is considered to be comment.

       You can have nested layers of command menus by surrounding a sequence of commands with '{'...'}' and giving it a title, as in

       My Commands {
         First list {
           Do something: some command
           Do something else: another command
           }
         Second list {
           Even more: yet another command
           So much more: and yet another one
           }
         }

       Command lists can be nested to any depth.

       By default the menu entries in the "Commands" menu will be numbered '1'...'9' to make them selectable by pressing the corresponding number key. If you want to use your own  num‐
       bering  scheme  (maybe  to  skip  certain numbers), just precede the titles with the numbers of your choice. vdr will suppress its automatic numbering if the first entry in com‐
       mands.conf starts with a digit in the range '1'...'9', followed by a blank.

       In order to avoid error messages to the console, every command should have stderr redirected to stdout. Everything the command prints to stdout will be  displayed  in  a  result
       window, with title as its title.

       Examples:

       Check for new mail?: /usr/local/bin/checkmail 2>&1
       CPU status: /usr/local/bin/cpustatus 2>&1
       Disk space: df -h | grep '/video' | awk '{ print 100 - $5 "% free"; }'
       Calendar: date;echo;cal

       Note that the commands 'checkmail' and 'cpustatus' are only examples!  Don't send emails to the author asking where to find these ;-)
       The '?' at the end of the "Check for new mail?" entry will prompt the user whether this command shall really be executed.

   RECORDING COMMANDS
       The  file  reccmds.conf  can  be  used  to define commands that can be applied to the currently highlighted recording in the "Recordings" menu. The syntax is exactly the same as
       described for the file commands.conf. When executing a command, the directory name of the recording will be appended to the command string, separated by a blank and enclosed  in
       single quotes.

   SVDRP HOSTS
       The file svdrphosts.conf contains the IP numbers of all hosts that are allowed to access the SVDRP port.  Each line contains one IP number in the format

       IP-Address[/Netmask]

       where  IP-Address is the address of a host or a network in the usual dot separated notation (as in 192.168.100.1). If the optional Netmask is given only the given number of bits
       of IP-Address are taken into account. This allows you to grant SVDRP access to all hosts of an entire network. Netmask can be any integer from 1 to 32. The special value of 0 is
       only accepted if the IP-Address is 0.0.0.0, because this will give access to any host (USE THIS WITH CARE!).

       Everything following (and including) a '#' character is considered to be comment.

       Examples:

       127.0.0.1        # always accept localhost
       192.168.100.0/24 # any host on the local net
       204.152.189.113  # a specific host
       0.0.0.0/0        # any host on any net (USE WITH CARE!)

   SETUP
       The  file setup.conf contains the basic configuration options for vdr.  Each line contains one option in the format "Name = Value".  See the MANUAL file for a description of the
       available options.

   THEMES
       The files themes/<skin>-<theme>.theme in the config directory contain the color theme definitions for the various skins. In the actual file names <skin> will be replaced by  the
       name  if the skin this theme belongs to, and <theme> will be the name of this theme.  Each line in a theme file contains one option in the format "Name = Value".  Anything after
       (and including) a '#' character is comment.

       The definitions in a theme file are either colors or a description.
       Colors are in the form

       clrTitle = FF123456

       where the name (clrTitle) is one of the names defined in the source code of the skin that uses this theme, through the THEME_CLR() macro.  The value (FF123456) is an eight digit
       hex  number  that  consist of four bytes, representing alpha (transparency), red, green and blue component of the color.  An alpha value of 00 means the color will be completely
       transparent, while FF means it will be opaque. An RGB value of 000000 results in black, while FFFFFF is white.

       A description can be given as

       Description = Shades of blue

       and will be used in the Setup/OSD menu to select a theme for a given skin.  The description should give the user an idea what this theme will be like (for instance, in the given
       example  it would use various shades of blue), and shouldn't be too long to make sure it fits on the Setup screen.  The default description always should be given in English. If
       you want, you can provide language specific descriptions as

       Description.eng = Shades of blue
       Description.ger = Blautöne

       where the language code is added to the keyword "Description", separated by a dot. You can enter as many language specific descriptions as you like, but only those that  have  a
       corresponding locale messages file will be actually used.  If a theme file doesn't contain a Description, the name of the theme (as given in the theme's file name) will be used.

   AUDIO/VIDEO DATA
       The  files  00001.ts...65535.ts  are  the  actual recorded data files. In order to keep the size of an individual file below a given limit, a recording may be split into several
       files. The contents of these files is Transport Stream (TS) and contains data packets that are each 188 byte long and start with 0x47. Data is stored exactly as it is broadcast,
       with a generated PAT/PMT inserted right before every independent frame.

   INDEX
       The  file  index  (if  present  in  a recording directory) contains the (binary) index data into each of the the recording files 00001.ts...65535.ts. It is used during replay to
       determine the current position within the recording, and to implement skipping and fast forward/back functions.  See the definition of the cIndexFile class for details about the
       actual contents of this file.

   INFO
       The  file  info  (if present in a recording directory) contains a description of the recording, derived from the EPG data at recording time (if such data was available). The Aux
       field of the corresponding timer (if given) is copied into this file, using the '@' tag.  This is a plain ASCII file and contains tagged lines like the EPG DATA  file  (see  the
       description  of  the  epg.data  file). Note that the lowercase tags ('c' and 'e') will not appear in an info file.  Lines tagged with '#' are ignored and can be used by external
       tools to store arbitrary information.

       In addition to the tags used in the epg.data file, the following tag characters are defined:

       F   <frame rate>
       L   <lifetime>
       P   <priority>
       @   <auxiliary data>

   RESUME
       The file resume (if present in a recording directory) contains the position within the recording where the last replay session left off.  The file consists of tagged lines  that
       describe the various parameters necessary to pick up replay where it left off.

       The following tag characters are defined:

       I   <offset into the file index>

   MARKS
       The  file marks (if present in a recording directory) contains the editing marks defined for this recording.  Each line contains the definition of one mark in the following for‐
       mat:

       hh:mm:ss.ff comment

       where hh:mm:ss.ff is a frame position within the recording, given as "hours, minutes, seconds and (optional) frame number".  comment can  be  any  string  and  may  be  used  to
       describe this mark.  If present, comment must be separated from the frame position by at least one blank.

       The lines in this file need not necessarily appear in the correct temporal sequence, they will be automatically sorted by time index.

       If a frame position doesn't point to an I-frame of the corresponding recording, it will be shifted towards the next I-frame (either up or down, whichever is closer).

       CURRENT RESTRICTIONS:

       - the comment is currently not used by VDR

   EPG DATA
       The file epg.data contains the EPG data in an easily parsable format.  The first character of each line defines what kind of data this line contains.

       The following tag characters are defined:

       C   <channel id> <channel name>
       E   <event id> <start time> <duration> <table id> <version>
       T   <title>
       S   <short text>
       D   <description>
       G   <genre> <genre>...
       R   <parental rating>
       X   <stream> <type> <language> <descr>
       V   <vps time>
       @   <auxiliary data>
       e
       c

       Lowercase  characters mark the end of a sequence that was started by the corresponding uppercase character. The outer frame consists of a sequence of one or more C...c (Channel)
       entries. Inside these any number of E...e (Event) entries are allowed.  All other tags are optional (although every event should at least have a T entry).

       There may be several X tags, depending on the number of tracks (video, audio etc.)  the event provides.

       <channel id>        is the "channel ID", made up from the parameters defined in 'channels.conf'

       <channel name>      is the "name" as in 'channels.conf' (for information only, may be left out)
       <event id>          is a 32 bit unsigned int, uniquely identifying this event
       <start time>        is the time (as a time_t integer) in UTC when this event starts
       <duration>          is the time (in seconds) that this event will take
       <table id>          is a hex number that indicates the table this event is contained in (if this is left empty it will be set to 0x00; and value less than 0x4E it will be treated as if it were 0x4E)
       <version>           is a hex number that indicates the event's version number inside its table (optional, ignored when reading EPG data)
       <title>             is the title of the event
       <short text>        is the short text of the event (typically the name of the episode etc.)
       <description>       is the description of the event (any '|' characters will be interpreted as newlines)
       <genre>             is a two digit hex code, as defined in  ETSI EN 300 468, table 28 (up to 4 genre codes are supported)
       <parental rating>   is the minimum age of the intended audience
       <stream>            is the stream content (1 = MPEG2 video, 2 = MP2 audio, 3 = subtitles, 4 = AC3 audio, 5 = H.264 video, 6 = HEAAC audio)
       <type>              is the stream type according to ETSI EN 300 468
       <language>          is the three letter language code (optionally two codes, separated by '+')
       <descr>             is the description of this stream component
       <vps time>          is the Video Programming Service time of this event
       <auxiliary data>    is an arbitrary string that can be used by external applications to store data; newline characters will be replaced with '|' when writing the epg.data file.

       This file will be read at program startup in order to restore the results of previous EPG scans.

       Note that the event id that comes from the DVB data stream is actually just 16 bit wide. The internal representation in VDR allows for 32 bit to be used, so that external  tools
       can generate EPG data that is guaranteed not to collide with the ids of existing data.

       The  auxiliary  data  can be used for plugin specific purposes and has no meaning whatsoever to VDR itself. It will not be written into the info file of a recording that is made
       for such an event.

   CAM DATA
       The file cam.data contains information about which CAM in the system can decrypt a particular channel.  Each line in this file contains a channel id, followed  by  one  or  more
       (blank separated) numbers, indicating the CAMs that have successfully decrypted this channel earlier.

       When  tuning to an encrypted channel, this information is used to select the proper CAM for decrypting this channel. This channel/CAM relationship is not hardcoded, though. If a
       given channel can't be decrypted with a CAM listed in this file, other CAMs will be tried just as well. The main purpose of this file is to speed up channel switching in systems
       with more than one CAM.

       This file will be read at program startup and saved when the program ends.

   CAM AUTO RESPONSE
       If  your  CAM  keeps popping up annoying messages or you want to make sure VDR can record programmes with parental rating without having to enter the PIN (in case you can't turn
       that off in your CAM), you can set up auto responses in the file camresponses.conf.

       Each line in this file specifies one rule to apply to texts received from the CAM. If the CAM's menu text matches the text in one of these rules, the given action is  taken  and
       sent to the CAM as an automatic response, without any menu appearing on the screen. The first match wins.

       The format of these rules is:

       nr text action

       where

       nr          is the number of the CAM this action applies to (0 = all CAMs)
       text        is the text in the CAM menu to react on (must be quoted with '"' if it contains blanks, escape '"' with '\')
       action      is the action to take if the given text is encountered

       Possible actions are:

       DISCARD     simply discard the menu (equivalent to pressing 'Back' on the RC)
       CONFIRM     confirm the menu (equivalent to pressing 'OK' without selecting a particular item)
       SELECT      select the menu item containing the text (equivalent to positioning the cursor on the item and pressing 'OK')
       <number>    the given number is sent to the CAM as if it were tyed in by the user (provided this is an input field).

       Note  that the text given in a rule must match exactly, including any leading or trailing blanks. If in doubt, you can get the exact text from the log file.  Action keywords are
       case insensitive.

       Everything following (and including) a '#' character is considered to be comment.

   COMMANDLINE OPTIONS
       If started without any options, vdr tries to read any files in the directory /etc/vdr/conf.d with names that do not begin with a '.' and that end with '.conf'.  These files  are
       read in alphabetical order. The format of these files is

       # comment
       [name]
       -a
       -b 123
       --long
       --longarg=123

       Any  lines that begin with '#' as the first non-whitespace character are considered comments and are ignored.  A command line option file consists of one or more sections, indi‐
       cated by '[name]', where 'name' is either the fixed word 'vdr' (if this section contains options for the main VDR program) or the name of the plugin  this  section  applies  to.
       Each  option must be written on a separate line, including the leading '-' (for a short option) or '--' (for a long option). If the option has additional arguments, they have to
       be written on the same line as the option itself, separated from the option with a blank (short option) or equal sign (long option).

SEE ALSO
       vdr(1)

AUTHOR
       Written by Klaus Schmidinger.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <vdr-bugs@tvdr.de>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2013 Klaus Schmidinger.

       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.



2.2                                                                                    19 Feb 2015                                                                                vdr(5)
